# CORBA-Example
A simple CORBA implementation using Java

## Instructions

### 1. Write the IDL file  
The IDL file defines the interface that will be used by the client and server for communicating and passing objects.  
When the IDL file gets compiled, it will produce a number of files, known as the stub and skeleton:  
* The stub is used by the client to communicate with the server  
* The skeleton is used by the server to communicate with the client  
* The stub and skeleton communicate with the ORB server to facilitate the remote procedure call  

The module in the IDL file will correspond to the package and directory in which the Java code will be generated

Echo.idl
   ```IDL
   module EchoApp {
       interface Echo {
           string echoString();
       };
   };
   ```

### 2. Generate the stub and skeleton code  
There is an idlj program that comes with the JDK for generating the stub and skeleton code in Java  
```shell
idlj –fall sum.idl
```
The following files are generated by the idlj program:  
  * _EchoStub.java  
  * Echo.java  
  * EchoHelper.java  
  * EchoHolder.java  
  * EchoOperations.java  
  * EchoPOA.java

### 3. Write the server code  
The server program will inherit from the EchoPOA class that was generated as part of the idlj program.  
The EchoPOA class implements the EchoOperations interface  
  * This interface contains the methods we defined in the Echo.idl file, but standardized to Java.  
  
We create an [EchoServer.java](src/EchoServer.java) class that extends the abstract EchoPoa class and then implement 
the methods contained in it  

We create a main method in [Server.java](src/Server.java) to communicate with the object request broker (ORB),
registering the server with the ORB so clients are able to find it.

### 4. Write the client code
The client program [Client.java](src/Client.java) needs to get a reference to the ORB then resolve the name of the server object it would like
to invoke.  
* This is ECHO-SERVER in this case  

After getting an instance of a Server object from the server, it can invoke methods on it just like a method
within its own JVM.  

### 5. Compile the code  
1. Compile the stub and skeleton from the directory that 
contains the IDL file.  

    Windows
    ```shell
    javac EchoApp\*.java
    ```  
    Linux
    ```shell
    javac EchoApp/*.java
    ```
2. Generate a JAR file from the compiled stub and skeleton.  
    Windows
    ```shell
    jar cvf echoapp.jar EchoApp\*.class
    ```
    Linux
    ```shell
    jar cvf echoapp.jar EchoApp/*.class
    ```

3. Compile the server and client classes  
    Windows
    ```shell
    javac -classpath .;echoapp.jar Server.java EchoServer.java Client.java
    ``` 
    Linux
    ```shell
    javac -classpath .:echoapp.jar Server.java EchoServer.java Client.java
    ``` 

### 6. Running the application  
1. Start the ORB server  
    ```shell
    orbd -ORBInitialPort 1050 -ORBInitialHost localhost
    ```
    
2. Start the server application
    ```shell
    java Server -ORBInitialPort 1050 -ORBInitialHost localhost
    ```

3. Start the client application
    ```shell
    java Client -ORBInitialPort 1050 -ORBInitialHost localhost
    ```

If everything was compiled correctly the output should be:  
```shell
Hello World!!!!!!!
```